CSS module: fonts (#28634)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/css_fonts/index.md

{{CSSRef}}

The **CSS fonts** module defines font-related properties and how font resources are loaded. It lets you define the style of a font, such as its family, size and weight, and the glyph variants to use when multiple are available for a single character.

A font is a resource file containing the visual representation of characters, mapping character codes to glyphs representing letters, numbers, punctuation and even emojis of a typeface. A font family is a group of fonts that share common design styles and font properties with each member of the group providing different ways of displaying the gylphs, varying by stroke weight, slant or relative width, among others. A font generally contains is a single style of a typeface, such as Helvetica that is Bold and Italic; a font family is the complete set of styles. Including a such a font is done by defining a separate `@font-face` declaration for each font resource.

> The properties, at-rules, and descriptors of the CSS fonts module enable downloading multiple variations of a font while defining which font file for a particular font characteristic, along with fallback instructions should a resource not load. The CSS font selection mechanism describes how to match a given set of CSS font properties to a single font face.

Reviewer: Least a reply

## Reference

### Properties

- {{cssxref("font")}} shorthand
- {{cssxref("font-family")}}
- {{cssxref("font-feature-settings")}}
- {{cssxref("font-kerning")}}
- {{cssxref("font-language-override")}}
- {{cssxref("font-optical-sizing")}}
- {{cssxref("font-palette")}}
- {{cssxref("font-size")}}
- {{cssxref("font-size-adjust")}}
- {{cssxref("font-stretch")}}
- {{cssxref("font-style")}}
- {{cssxref("font-weight")}}

- {{cssxref("font-synthesis")}} shorthand
- {{cssxref("font-synthesis-small-caps")}}
- {{cssxref("font-synthesis-style")}}
- {{cssxref("font-synthesis-weight")}}

- {{cssxref("font-variant")}} shorthand
- {{cssxref("font-variant-alternates")}}
- {{cssxref("font-variant-caps")}}
- {{cssxref("font-variant-east-asian")}}
- {{cssxref("font-variant-emoji")}}
- {{cssxref("font-variant-ligatures")}}
- {{cssxref("font-variant-numeric")}}
- {{cssxref("font-variant-position")}}
- {{cssxref("font-variation-settings")}}

### At-rules and descriptors

> {{cssxref("@font-face")}}
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At-rule: {{cssxref("@font-face")}}
Descriptors:
```

- {{cssxref("@font-face/ascent-override", "ascent-override")}}
- {{cssxref("@font-face/descent-override", "descent-override")}}
- {{cssxref("@font-face/font-display", "font-display")}}
- {{cssxref("@font-face/font-family", "font-family")}}
- {{cssxref("@font-face/font-feature-settings", "font-feature-settings")}}
- {{cssxref("@font-face/font-language-override", "font-language-override")}}
- {{cssxref("@font-face/font-named-instance", "font-named-instance")}}
- {{cssxref("@font-face/font-stretch", "font-stretch")}}
- {{cssxref("@font-face/font-style", "font-style")}}
- {{cssxref("@font-face/font-variation-settings", "font-variation-settings")}}
- {{cssxref("@font-face/font-weight", "font-weight")}}
- {{cssxref("@font-face/line-gap-override", "line-gap-override")}}

> - {{cssxref("@font-face/src", "src")}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- {{cssxref("@font-face/size-adjust", "size-adjust")}}
- {{cssxref("@font-face/src", "src")}}
```
"size-adjust" is not in the spec but we have a page on this descriptor

- {{cssxref("@font-face/unicode-range", "unicode-range")}}

> {{cssxref("@font-feature-values")}}
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At-rule: {{cssxref("@font-feature-values")}}
Descriptor:
```

- {{cssxref("@font-feature-values/font-display", "font-display")}}

> {{cssxref("@font-palette-values")}}
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At-rule: {{cssxref("@font-palette-values")}}
Descriptors:
```

- {{cssxref("relative-size")}}
- [`<color-font-tech>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@supports#font-tech)
- [`<common-lig-values>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-ligatures#values)
- [`<contextual-alt-values>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-ligatures#values)
- [`<discretionary-lig-values>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-ligatures#values)
- [`<east-asian-variant-values>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant#values)
- [`<east-asian-width-values>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant#values)
- [`<feature-tag-value>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-feature-settings#values)
- [`<font-features-tech>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@supports#font-tech)
- [`<font-variant-css2>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant)
- [`<font-format>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@supports#font-format)
- [`<font-stretch-css3>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-stretch#values)
- [`<font-tech>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@supports#font-tech)
- [`<numeric-figure-values>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-numeric#values)
- [`<numeric-fraction-values>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-numeric#values)
- [`<numeric-spacing-values>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-numeric#values)
- [`<font-weight-absolute>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-weight#values)

> - [`<historical-lig-values>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-ligatures#values)

Reviewer 2: `<historical-lig-values>` can be moved up with other `font-variant-ligatures` types

> - [`<historical-lig-values>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-ligatures#values)

Reviewer 2: Can we group them like so (the unbulleted items will be rendered with paragraph spacing):

```
- {{cssxref("absolute-size")}}
- {{cssxref("generic-family")}}
- {{cssxref("relative-size")}}

`font-feature-settings` type:
- [`<feature-tag-value>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-feature-settings#values)

`font-format` type:
- [`<font-format>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@supports#font-format)

`font-stretch` type:
- [`<font-stretch-css3>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-stretch#values)

`font-tech` types:
- [`<color-font-tech>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@supports#font-tech)
- [`<font-features-tech>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@supports#font-tech)
- [`<font-tech>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@supports#font-tech)

`font-variant` types:
- [`<font-variant-css2>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant)
- [`<east-asian-variant-values>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant#values)
- [`<east-asian-width-values>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant#values)

`font-variant-ligatures` types:
- [`<common-lig-values>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-ligatures#values)
- [`<contextual-alt-values>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-ligatures#values)
- [`<discretionary-lig-values>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-ligatures#values)
- [`<historical-lig-values>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-ligatures#values)

`font-variant-numeric` types:
- [`<numeric-figure-values>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-numeric#values)
- [`<numeric-fraction-values>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-numeric#values)
- [`<numeric-spacing-values>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant-numeric#values)

`font-weight` type:
- [`<font-weight-absolute>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-weight#values)

```

### Interfaces

- {{domxref("CSSFontFaceRule")}}
- {{domxref("CSSFontFeatureValuesRule")}}
- {{domxref("CSSFontPaletteValuesRule")}}

## Guides

- [Learn: Fundamental text and font styling](/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Styling_text/Fundamentals)

>   - : This beginner's learning article covers the basic fundamentals of text/font styling, including setting font weight, family and style, the {{cssxref("font")}} shorthand, text alignment and other effects, and line and letter spacing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - : This beginner's learning article covers the basic fundamentals of text and font styling. It covers how to set the font weight, family, and style by using the {{cssxref("font")}} shorthand and how to align text and manage line and letter spacing.
```

- [Learn: Web fonts](/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Styling_text/Web_fonts)

>   - : This beginner's learning article explains how to use custom fonts with your web page to allow for more varied, custom text styling.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - : This beginner's learning article explains how to use custom fonts on your web page to allow for more varied and custom text styling.
```

- [OpenType font features guide](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_fonts/OpenType_fonts_guide)

  - : Font features or variants refer to different glyphs or character styles contained within an OpenType font. These include things like ligatures (special glyphs that combine characters like 'fi' or 'ffl'), kerning (adjustments to the spacing between specific letterform pairings), fractions, numeral styles, and a number of others. These are all referred to as OpenType Features, and are made available to use on the web via specific properties and a low-level control property — {{cssxref("font-feature-settings")}}. This article provides you with all you need to know about using OpenType font features in CSS.

- [Variable fonts guide](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_fonts/Variable_fonts_guide)

>   - : **Variable fonts** are an OpenType font specification that enables many different variations of a typeface to be incorporated into a single file, rather than having a separate font file for every width, weight, or style. This article will get you started using variable fonts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - : This article will help you get started with using variable fonts.
```
We don't need to define variable fonts here (we have done so in the intro paras). Keeping only the description of the article. Moved the "OpenType" info to the intro para explaining variable fonts.

- [Improving font perfomance](/en-US/docs/Learn/Performance/CSS#improving_font_performance)

>   - : Part of the CSS perfomance guide discussing font loading, loading only needed glyphs, and defining font display behavior with the `font-display` descriptor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - : This article, part of the CSS performance guide, discusses font loading, loading only the required glyphs, and defining font display behavior with the `font-display` descriptor.
```

## Related concepts

> - CSS {{cssxref("line-height")}} property
> - CSS {{cssxref("text-transform")}} property
> - CSS {{cssxref("letter-spacing")}} property

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- {{cssxref("letter-spacing")}} CSS property
- {{cssxref("line-height")}} CSS property
- {{cssxref("text-transform")}} CSS property
```
- Making alphabetic and keeping the unlinked text together

(Just got an idea - maybe next to each of these, we can mention the spec/module they're part of. We would need to do this for all "Related concepts" sections in other modules.)

## Reference

### Properties

- {{cssxref("font")}} shorthand
- {{cssxref("font-family")}}
- {{cssxref("font-feature-settings")}}
- {{cssxref("font-kerning")}}
- {{cssxref("font-language-override")}}
- {{cssxref("font-optical-sizing")}}
- {{cssxref("font-palette")}}
- {{cssxref("font-size")}}
- {{cssxref("font-size-adjust")}}
- {{cssxref("font-stretch")}}
- {{cssxref("font-style")}}
- {{cssxref("font-weight")}}

- {{cssxref("font-synthesis")}} shorthand
- {{cssxref("font-synthesis-small-caps")}}
- {{cssxref("font-synthesis-style")}}
- {{cssxref("font-synthesis-weight")}}

- {{cssxref("font-variant")}} shorthand
- {{cssxref("font-variant-alternates")}}
- {{cssxref("font-variant-caps")}}
- {{cssxref("font-variant-east-asian")}}
- {{cssxref("font-variant-emoji")}}
- {{cssxref("font-variant-ligatures")}}
- {{cssxref("font-variant-numeric")}}
- {{cssxref("font-variant-position")}}
- {{cssxref("font-variation-settings")}}

### At-rules and descriptors

At-rule: {{cssxref("@font-face")}}
Descriptors:

> - {{cssxref("@font-face/ascent-override", "ascent-override")}}

Reviewer: esable

> - {{cssxref("@font-face/ascent-override", "ascent-override")}}

Reviewer: > **[mdn-linter]** <sub>reported by [reviewdog](https://github.com/reviewdog/reviewdog) :dog:</sub><br>
> ```suggestion
> 
> - {{cssxref("@font-face/ascent-override", "ascent-override")}}
> ```
> 
esable

> - {{cssxref("@font-face/ascent-override", "ascent-override")}}

Reviewer: > **[mdn-linter]** <sub>reported by [reviewdog](https://github.com/reviewdog/reviewdog) :dog:</sub><br>
> ```suggestion
> 
> - {{cssxref("@font-face/ascent-override", "ascent-override")}}
> ```
> 
esablle

> - {{cssxref("@font-face/ascent-override", "ascent-override")}}

Reviewer: > **[mdn-linter]** <sub>reported by [reviewdog](https://github.com/reviewdog/reviewdog) :dog:</sub><br>
> ```suggestion
> 
> - {{cssxref("@font-face/ascent-override", "ascent-override")}}
> ```
> 

establle

> - {{cssxref("@font-face/ascent-override", "ascent-override")}}

Reviewer: > **[mdn-linter]** <sub>reported by [reviewdog](https://github.com/reviewdog/reviewdog) :dog:</sub><br>
> ```suggestion
> 
> - {{cssxref("@font-face/ascent-override", "ascent-override")}}
> ```
> 

eatablle

- {{cssxref("@font-face/descent-override", "descent-override")}}
- {{cssxref("@font-face/font-display", "font-display")}}
- {{cssxref("@font-face/font-family", "font-family")}}
- {{cssxref("@font-face/font-feature-settings", "font-feature-settings")}}
- {{cssxref("@font-face/font-language-override", "font-language-override")}}
- {{cssxref("@font-face/font-named-instance", "font-named-instance")}}
- {{cssxref("@font-face/font-stretch", "font-stretch")}}
- {{cssxref("@font-face/font-style", "font-style")}}
- {{cssxref("@font-face/font-variation-settings", "font-variation-settings")}}
- {{cssxref("@font-face/font-weight", "font-weight")}}
- {{cssxref("@font-face/line-gap-override", "line-gap-override")}}
- {{cssxref("@font-face/size-adjust", "size-adjust")}}
- {{cssxref("@font-face/src", "src")}}
- {{cssxref("@font-face/unicode-range", "unicode-range")}}

At-rule: {{cssxref("@font-feature-values")}}
Descriptor:

> - {{cssxref("@font-feature-values/font-display", "font-display")}}

Reviewer: > **[mdn-linter]** <sub>reported by [reviewdog](https://github.com/reviewdog/reviewdog) :dog:</sub><br>
> ```suggestion
> 
> - {{cssxref("@font-feature-values/font-display", "font-display")}}
> ```
> 

estenlle
